So now we're going
to get a chance
to talk about
StreamOfFuturesCollector.
And this is going
to wrap the allOf
method to work with the
Java streams framework.
This is going to
go by pretty fast.
We've already talked
about a variant of this
we called FuturesCollector--
which, in hindsight,
I probably should
have called
ListOfFuturesCollector,
but at the time I
wrote it I never
knew I would need a
StreamOfFuturesCollector,
so I didn't give it
as descriptive a name
as I should have.
StreamOfFuturesCollector wraps
the allOf arbitrary error
key method to work with
the Java streams framework,
and it can converts a stream
of completable futures
into a single
completable future that's
triggered when all the futures
in the stream complete.
And, of course, it implements
the Collector interface--
which, as you recall, just
accumulates the elements
of the input stream into a
mutable result container.
And this does some
really cool stuff.
It's also a powerful
wrapper, so it greatly
simplifies your life.
I strongly recommend using
this kind of technique
almost anytime you're tempted
to write completable futures.
It just makes life
so much simpler.
Here's what the
implementation looks like.
This is going to
look very familiar.
So StreamOfFuturesCollector
implements Collector.
It's a custom collector.
The type of argument
in the stream
is the CompletableFuture to
T. The type of mutable result
container, the
accumulator itself, is
a list of
CompletableFuture to T.
And the finisher returns
a CompletableFuture
to a stream of T.
Now, this is what differed from
our previous implementation.
The previous implementation
had a CompletableFuture
to a list of T. That was
the FuturesCollector.
But the StreamOfFuturesCollector
has a CompletableFuture
to a stream of T. Wow,
why do we do that?
Well, you'll see
in just a second.
Here are the various
factory methods.
The first several
are exactly the same.
Supplier returns a new
constructor reference
to an ArrayList.
So we'll end up with a
list of CompletableFutures
to T as our mutable
result container type.
Accumulator just
adds a new element
that's a CompletableFuture
to the list.
Very simple, no locks needed.
Doing a single-threaded stream
here, a sequential stream.
Just for kicks, we put the
combiner method in here.
It's identical to what
we've seen before.
They almost always
look exactly the same.
This method will never be
called for sequential streams,
but I just put it here to
show it for completeness.
And as before, all the fun
stuff occurs in finisher.
This method plays more
or less the same purpose
as the previous finisher
for the futures collector
implementation, with
one little difference.
And the main difference
is it's going
to return a CompletableFuture
to a Stream of T,
not a CompletableFuture
to a list of T.
We take the futures, list
which is the mutable result
container, which
is an array list.
We convert that array
list into an array.
We pass that array into the
allOf arbitrary error key
method.
We get back a single
completable future,
which will trigger only when
all the other futures complete.
When that happens, we set
up an action using thenApply
to go ahead and
get a single future
to a stream of joined
elements of type
T. Here's how we do that.
We take the futures list, turn
it into a stream of futures,
and then we go ahead and
call the map operation,
joining every one
of those futures--
completable futures-- to get the
object that they correspond to.
The call to join here, as
before, will never block,
because we would never
have gotten to this point
if all of the futures
weren't finished--
because that completable
future return from allOf
wouldn't have triggered,
thenApply wouldn't be called,
and we wouldn't
find ourselves here.
Now, as you can see,
this returns a future--
a completable future-- to a
stream of elements of type
T. And the reason we do
this is because we want
to take this stream, which
we're going to basically use
to wait until
everything else is done,
and when that is finished,
we want to apply it,
and we want to get
it as a stream.
So as you can see
here, thenApply
is going to take a
stream, and that stream
will then go ahead and
remove all the empty elements
and print out some
diagnostics that are useful.
Here's a bit more of the
StreamOfFuturesCollector
implementation.
We've got a
characteristics factor
that returns type
of characteristics
we want for the stream, which
basically are unordered.
We don't care about ordering.
And we have a
factory method that
creates a
StreamOfFuturesCollector when
you call the factory method.
So that's, again,
almost identical to
what we saw before.